Project Plan.md, before:

# Project Plan: Goaliphant - Daily Goals Telegram Bot

## Overview
This project is a Telegram bot called "Goaliphant" designed to help my wife Jamie and I set and track daily goals. The bot will send reminders and prompts to record goals for the next day and track completion of the previous day's goals. Data will be stored using DynamoDB.

---

## Development Plan
### **Phase 1: Core Functionality**
1. **Setup Telegram Bot**
   - [x] Register bot via BotFather on Telegram.
   - [x] Retrieve bot token.
   - [x] Create a lambda function (bot) that handles communication with the user
   - [x] Create commands to:
     - [x] Start using goaliphant
     - [x] Add goals
     - [x] Delete goals
     - [x] List today's goals
     - [x] Complete goals
   - [x] Save user information in a dynamodb table (just chatid for now, eventually settings?)
2. **Implement Nightly Prompt**
   - [x] Create Lambda function to send nightly messages.
   - [x] Store goals in the database.
3. **Goal Completion Check**
   - [x] Include check-in for the previous day's goals in the nightly prompt.
   - [x] Update completion status in the database.

### **Phase 2: Reminders**
1. **Add Morning Reminder**
   - [x] Schedule reminder using AWS EventBridge or Lambda triggers.

### **Phase 3: Goal Tracking**
1. **Enable Goal Updates**
   - [x] Implement commands to mark goals as completed.
   - [x] Update database with changes.

### **Phase 4: Enhancements**
1. **Roll over incomplete tasks to the next day**
    - [x] Create new Lambda function (rollover)
    - [x] Logic to find incomplete tasks from the previous day and duplicate them into today's goals
    - [x] Add a new EventBridge schedule to trigger the new lambda
2. **Tickets and Rewards**
    - [x] Add a `TicketCount` data point to Users
    - [x] Add a `Partner` data point to Users that refers to another User in the system
    - [x] When a user completes a goal, increment their `TicketCount`
    - [x] When a user uncompletes a goal, decrement their `TicketCount`
    - [x] New DynamoDB table called `GoaliphantRewards` that basically just tracks a list of rewards each player can earn with tickets
    - [x] New Bot command: `/rewards` that lists those rewards
    - [x] New Bot command: `/redeem {#}` that sends a message to the partner with the reward name, and deducts the predefined number of tickets from the user
    - [x] New Bot command: `/wallet` that sends a message to the user with their current ticket count.
    - [x] New Bot command: `/add-reward` that kicks off a short process to create a new reward for your partner.
3. **Honey-Do** 🐝
   - [x] As in #2, add a `Partner` data point to Users that refers to another User in the system
   - [x] New Bot command: `/honey {1, 2, 3}` that operates the same as the `/add {1, 2, 3}` but adds it to the partner's honey-do list instead of their regular list.
   - [x] Notify partner when one of these items is completed
4. **Dashboard** 
   - [ ] Create a dashboard page that pulls data from the API
5. **Scheduled Goals**
   - [x] New Bot command: `/schedule {#} {mm dd}`
   - [x] New table: `GoaliphantScheduledGoals` with the text, date, and chat id
   - [ ] In the rollover func, look for scheduled goals for that day, add them to the day and remove from schedule
6. **Request Reward**
   - [x] New Bot command: `/requestreward` should trigger a similar flow to the create reward command, but don't ask for tickets
   - [x] Send notification to partner and go into "pricing" mode. The next input from the user should be a number, set that value on the reward table.
   - [x] Make sure to hide rewards from the user that don't have ticket values on them. That way we can go ahead and make the new record without having to worry about it. Or maybe we show them but just say *"pending ticket price"* or something?
7. **Rearrange Goals**
   - [x] New Bot command: `/swap {#} {#}` which just does a simple swap of two goals in the order
8. **Edit Goal**
   - [x] New Bot command `/edit {#} {new text}` which swaps the text of a goal for new text the user enters
9. **List params**
   - [x] `todo` should only list things that are not checked
   - [x] `done` should only list things that are checked
   - [x] `scheduled` should only show things that are scheduled in the future
   - [x] `all` should list all completed, incompleted, and scheduled things
   - [x] `today` (default) should list everything but scheduled items in the future
10. **AI Integration**
   - [x] Integrate with OpenAI to allow the bot to use GPT as an action.
   - [x] When a message is sent to the bot that doesn't start with a slash, the bot should use GPT to respond to the message.
   - [x] The OpenAI API call should utilize the tools feature so that the bot can call functions and return data. (So we'll need to define the functions and the data they return.)
   - [x] We should just store the last like 10 messages in the chat history and use that for the context window.
     - [x] On the User table, add another field called `chatHistory` that is an array of strings.
     - [x] Every time the bot responds to a message, add the message to the user's chat history.
     - [x] Every time the bot sends a message, add the message to the user's chat history.
     - [x] Every time the bot receives a message, add the message to the user's chat history.
   - [ ] Finish the request reward flow 
11. **Priority Scoring System**
   - [ ] Something similar to Eisenhower Matrix but with three dimensions
12. **Goal Notes**
   - [x] New Bot command `/note {#} {note text}` that adds to a notes array on the record for that goal
   - [x] New Bot command `/details {#}` that lists the text and details of the selected goal
13. **Release Notes**
   - [ ] New GitHub action that I can run when a new feature is added. This will invoke a lambda that will send a message to all the chat ids in the User Table with the release notes.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/release-notes` that lists the release notes for the current version
   - [ ] It would be nice if these could be automatically generated by AI or something.
14. **Help Command Enhancements**
   - [x] New Bot command `/help` that lists the help command for the current version
   - [x] The command should also take an optional argument that is a command name, and it will return help for that command.
   - [x] The help response with no arguments should just list all the commands, a short description of what they do.
   - [x] The help response with an argument should list the command name, a short description of what it does, and the arguments it takes (with an example).
   - [x] For more complicated commands (e.g. createreward), the help response should list the command name, a short description of what it does, the arguments it takes (with an example), and a walkthrough of the process.
15. **Recurring Goals**
   - [x] New Bot command `/recurring {#} {cron}` that turns a goal into a recurring goal.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/unrecurring {#}` that turns a recurring goal back into a one-time goal.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/editrecurring {#} {cron}` that edits the cron expression for a recurring goal.
   - [ ] This will require an update to the rollover function to check for recurring goals and add them to the day's goals.
     - [ ] Make sure we're not duplicating goals
16. **Ticket Values**
   - [ ] New Bot command `/ticketvalue {#}` that lists the ticket value for a goal.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/setticketvalue {#}` that sets the ticket value for a goal.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/editticketvalue {#}` that edits the ticket value for a goal.
   - [ ] Goals without an explicit ticket value should have a default value of 1.
17. **
---

## Technical Requirements
1. **Languages and Libraries**
   - Node.js
   - `node-telegram-bot-api` library
   - AWS SDK for Node.js
2. **AWS Services**
   - Lambda
   - DynamoDB
   - EventBridge

---

## Deployment Plan
1. **Version Control**
   - GitHub repository for code management.
2. **CI/CD**
   - Github Actions

---

This is the current structure:
```
├── .github
│   └── workflows
│       ├── deploy-api.yml
│       ├── deploy-bot.yml
│       ├── deploy-notifier.yml
│       └── deploy-rollover.yml
├── .gitignore
├── Project Plan.md
├── api
│   ├── api.js
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── package-lock.json
│   └── package.json
├── bot
│   ├── .env
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── package-lock.json
│   └── package.json
├── common
│   └── repository.js
├── logo.svg
├── notifier
│   ├── .env
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── package-lock.json
│   └── package.json
├── rollover
│   ├── .env
│   ├── index.js
│   └── package.json
└── ui
    ├── App.svelte
    ├── app.css
    ├── app.js
    ├── goliphant-ui
    └── index.html
```

Commit message:

fill out more ai tools. Refactor a bit.

Project Plan.md, after:

# Project Plan: Goaliphant - Daily Goals Telegram Bot

## Overview
This project is a Telegram bot called "Goaliphant" designed to help my wife Jamie and I set and track daily goals. The bot will send reminders and prompts to record goals for the next day and track completion of the previous day's goals. Data will be stored using DynamoDB.

---

## Development Plan
### **Phase 1: Core Functionality**
1. **Setup Telegram Bot**
   - [x] Register bot via BotFather on Telegram.
   - [x] Retrieve bot token.
   - [x] Create a lambda function (bot) that handles communication with the user
   - [x] Create commands to:
     - [x] Start using goaliphant
     - [x] Add goals
     - [x] Delete goals
     - [x] List today's goals
     - [x] Complete goals
   - [x] Save user information in a dynamodb table (just chatid for now, eventually settings?)
2. **Implement Nightly Prompt**
   - [x] Create Lambda function to send nightly messages.
   - [x] Store goals in the database.
3. **Goal Completion Check**
   - [x] Include check-in for the previous day's goals in the nightly prompt.
   - [x] Update completion status in the database.

### **Phase 2: Reminders**
1. **Add Morning Reminder**
   - [x] Schedule reminder using AWS EventBridge or Lambda triggers.

### **Phase 3: Goal Tracking**
1. **Enable Goal Updates**
   - [x] Implement commands to mark goals as completed.
   - [x] Update database with changes.

### **Phase 4: Enhancements**
1. **Roll over incomplete tasks to the next day**
    - [x] Create new Lambda function (rollover)
    - [x] Logic to find incomplete tasks from the previous day and duplicate them into today's goals
    - [x] Add a new EventBridge schedule to trigger the new lambda
2. **Tickets and Rewards**
    - [x] Add a `TicketCount` data point to Users
    - [x] Add a `Partner` data point to Users that refers to another User in the system
    - [x] When a user completes a goal, increment their `TicketCount`
    - [x] When a user uncompletes a goal, decrement their `TicketCount`
    - [x] New DynamoDB table called `GoaliphantRewards` that basically just tracks a list of rewards each player can earn with tickets
    - [x] New Bot command: `/rewards` that lists those rewards
    - [x] New Bot command: `/redeem {#}` that sends a message to the partner with the reward name, and deducts the predefined number of tickets from the user
    - [x] New Bot command: `/wallet` that sends a message to the user with their current ticket count.
    - [x] New Bot command: `/add-reward` that kicks off a short process to create a new reward for your partner.
3. **Honey-Do** 🐝
   - [x] As in #2, add a `Partner` data point to Users that refers to another User in the system
   - [x] New Bot command: `/honey {1, 2, 3}` that operates the same as the `/add {1, 2, 3}` but adds it to the partner's honey-do list instead of their regular list.
   - [x] Notify partner when one of these items is completed
4. **Dashboard** 
   - [ ] Create a dashboard page that pulls data from the API
5. **Scheduled Goals**
   - [x] New Bot command: `/schedule {#} {mm dd}`
   - [x] New table: `GoaliphantScheduledGoals` with the text, date, and chat id
   - [ ] In the rollover func, look for scheduled goals for that day, add them to the day and remove from schedule
6. **Request Reward**
   - [x] New Bot command: `/requestreward` should trigger a similar flow to the create reward command, but don't ask for tickets
   - [x] Send notification to partner and go into "pricing" mode. The next input from the user should be a number, set that value on the reward table.
   - [x] Make sure to hide rewards from the user that don't have ticket values on them. That way we can go ahead and make the new record without having to worry about it. Or maybe we show them but just say *"pending ticket price"* or something?
7. **Rearrange Goals**
   - [x] New Bot command: `/swap {#} {#}` which just does a simple swap of two goals in the order
8. **Edit Goal**
   - [x] New Bot command `/edit {#} {new text}` which swaps the text of a goal for new text the user enters
9. **List params**
   - [x] `todo` should only list things that are not checked
   - [x] `done` should only list things that are checked
   - [x] `scheduled` should only show things that are scheduled in the future
   - [x] `all` should list all completed, incompleted, and scheduled things
   - [x] `today` (default) should list everything but scheduled items in the future
10. **AI Integration**
   - [x] Integrate with OpenAI to allow the bot to use GPT as an action.
   - [x] When a message is sent to the bot that doesn't start with a slash, the bot should use GPT to respond to the message.
   - [x] The OpenAI API call should utilize the tools feature so that the bot can call functions and return data. (So we'll need to define the functions and the data they return.)
   - [x] We should just store the last like 10 messages in the chat history and use that for the context window.
     - [x] On the User table, add another field called `chatHistory` that is an array of strings.
     - [x] Every time the bot responds to a message, add the message to the user's chat history.
     - [x] Every time the bot sends a message, add the message to the user's chat history.
     - [x] Every time the bot receives a message, add the message to the user's chat history.
   - [ ] Finish the request reward flow 
11. **Priority Scoring System**
   - [ ] Something similar to Eisenhower Matrix but with three dimensions
12. **Goal Notes**
   - [x] New Bot command `/note {#} {note text}` that adds to a notes array on the record for that goal
   - [x] New Bot command `/details {#}` that lists the text and details of the selected goal
13. **Release Notes**
   - [ ] New GitHub action that I can run when a new feature is added. This will invoke a lambda that will send a message to all the chat ids in the User Table with the release notes.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/release-notes` that lists the release notes for the current version
   - [ ] It would be nice if these could be automatically generated by AI or something.
14. **Help Command Enhancements**
   - [x] New Bot command `/help` that lists the help command for the current version
   - [x] The command should also take an optional argument that is a command name, and it will return help for that command.
   - [x] The help response with no arguments should just list all the commands, a short description of what they do.
   - [x] The help response with an argument should list the command name, a short description of what it does, and the arguments it takes (with an example).
   - [x] For more complicated commands (e.g. createreward), the help response should list the command name, a short description of what it does, the arguments it takes (with an example), and a walkthrough of the process.
15. **Recurring Goals**
   - [x] New Bot command `/recurring {#} {cron}` that turns a goal into a recurring goal.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/unrecurring {#}` that turns a recurring goal back into a one-time goal.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/editrecurring {#} {cron}` that edits the cron expression for a recurring goal.
   - [ ] This will require an update to the rollover function to check for recurring goals and add them to the day's goals.
     - [ ] Make sure we're not duplicating goals
16. **Ticket Values**
   - [ ] New Bot command `/ticketvalue {#}` that lists the ticket value for a goal.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/setticketvalue {#}` that sets the ticket value for a goal.
   - [ ] New Bot command `/editticketvalue {#}` that edits the ticket value for a goal.
   - [ ] Goals without an explicit ticket value should have a default value of 1.
17. **Bonus Tickets**
   - [ ] At the end of each day, check the user's completed goals. If they have 3 or more, add 1 bonus ticket to their count and let them know they got it.
---

## Technical Requirements
1. **Languages and Libraries**
   - Node.js
   - `node-telegram-bot-api` library
   - AWS SDK for Node.js
2. **AWS Services**
   - Lambda
   - DynamoDB
   - EventBridge

---

## Deployment Plan
1. **Version Control**
   - GitHub repository for code management.
2. **CI/CD**
   - Github Actions

---

This is the current structure:
```
├── .github
│   └── workflows
│       ├── deploy-api.yml
│       ├── deploy-bot.yml
│       ├── deploy-notifier.yml
│       └── deploy-rollover.yml
├── .gitignore
├── Project Plan.md
├── api
│   ├── api.js
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── package-lock.json
│   └── package.json
├── bot
│   ├── .env
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── package-lock.json
│   └── package.json
├── common
│   └── repository.js
├── logo.svg
├── notifier
│   ├── .env
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── package-lock.json
│   └── package.json
├── rollover
│   ├── .env
│   ├── index.js
│   └── package.json
└── ui
    ├── App.svelte
    ├── app.css
    ├── app.js
    ├── goliphant-ui
    └── index.html
```
